---
layout: post
title:      "Project 02 Using Sinatra"
date:       2021-02-01 20:47:36 -0500
permalink:  project_02_using_sinatra
---


Confident in my ability to code logic and recreate real life objects into coded classes, I was always yearning to be able to actually code something that could be used with relative universality. Involved with a couple start-up companies prior to my time with FlatIron, I had spent hours on StackHub/Full Stack and any other free source of information to learn about SQL and databasing as well as how to actually make information available on the internet. I found some information for SQL, enough that I had a very basic knowledge of it prior to Flatiron, but unfortunately nothing on creating web-apps. This made Sinatra a very exciting if nerve-racking module for me. I knew I was very good at the logic of coding, loops, classes, interacting classes with one another and other back-end details came somewhat naturally to me, but if I could not complete the Sinatra module effectively, my confidence in coding would take a massive hit. 
It took me a little longer than I'd have preferred, but I grasped all the concepts of Sinatra. Being able to directly test in in real time using `shotgun` was very helpful, and when used in tandem with `binding.pry` I was able to move even more quickly. So much so, that by the time I reached the project I had a lot of confidence in my ability to quickly create something that was rich in content, as I believe I have. The biggest issue I had was getting all of the gems to work. I began by creating my app from scratch, not using any gems like rails to give me the barebones for the app and this proved to be a lethal mistake. Even tho I copied the config.ru and config/environment.rb files from past labs I was unable to get my ActiveRecord to work, and even then my shotgun command was still finicky. I felt-- and still feel that setting up environments properly should have been covered much more extensively in this module or in previous ones, because as a Self-Pace student, I truly had no idea what any of these files did specifically, and much of the syntax I was given was just given with no explanation what it does or why it is used. This is why after conferring with my section lead I installed a gem called corneal. This gave me a template for my app, which refreshingly enough to me was very similar to mine, in fact I saw almost no difference between my own configuration/environment files and the ones installed with corneal; but since it worked I won't complain. I had actually built around 80% of the app before I was even able to run shotgun for the first time, meaning the vast majority of my time after installing corneal was spent debugging. 
